Study on informative distance weights and summary statistics in ABC
===================================================================

This is the code underlying the study on ABC statistic learning and adaptive distance weight calculation, for the manuscript
"Informative and adaptive distances and summary statistics in sequential approximate Bayesian computation" by Yannik Schälte, Jan Hasenauer, 2022. Both analysis and figure generation code are included, facilitating reproducibility with likely slight modifications (some parts are specific to the employed hardware).

Installation
------------

The study is prepared for execution on Linux, particularly on the Juelich Supercomputing Center (JSC) infrastructure.
To run on other systems, slight modifications to the ``install_all.sh`` and ``run_....sh`` scripts may be necessary.
The ``install_all.sh`` script handles the full installation process, including a miniconda instance, Redis, pyABC, tumor2d, and this very repository.
It installs everything to a local conda environment slad, which can be activated via ``start_env.sh``.

Underlying code
---------------

* The slad module contains the test problems and some utility functions. It must be installed as mentioned above.

Study execution
---------------

* The study execution scripts are under ``scripts_learn``.
* Particularly, these are ``run_all_useall.py`` to run the first five model analyses,
  and ``scripts_robust/run_tumor_noisy.py`` to run the tumor model analysis (in another folder for no good reason).
* These generate SQLite databases under ``data_learn`` and ``data_robust`` (for tumor).
  For each run, a separate database is created. If one exists already, the corresponding run is
  skipped.
* The scripts expect to be run with a set-up Redis server. The whole process
  of server and worker setup and analysis script execution can be automatized
  via the ``run.sh`` command. An example call would be
  ``bash run.sh --port=9204 --nodes=2 --file=scripts_robust/run_all.py --time=24:00:00 --name=name1``.
* ``run.sh`` creates log files in ``out_...`` folders.
* Further, there are various scripts for detailed result inspection.
  These are not necessarily maintained.

Figure generation
-----------------

* The figure generation scripts are in ``figure_scripts_learn`` and generate the files under ``figures_learn``.
* They require the data under ``data_...`` to exist.

Data
----

* The data are in folders ``data_...`` and generated by the corresponding
  ``scripts_...`` scripts.
* The data underlying the figures used in the manuscript are not contained
  in the online repository due to their size, however are available via
  a snapshot on Zenodo.
